♪ [music] ♪
Now that we've got our data being
added to our form field whenever we either
create a new store or update one, let's
add the ability to upload a photo every
single time that we have. So, this is
sorta going to be like a three-stage
process. First, we need to modify
our form to accept file uploads.
Second, we need to add some Middleware in
between. If we open up our store
controller, we have, "Create store." So,
before we even create the store,
we need to add some logic to both, upload
the file as well as resize the file.
We're going to be using some external
Middleware packages called multer,
which is going to allow us to upload the
file and we're going to be using something
called, "GIMP" which will help us resize a
file. So we've got this export stack,
"create store" here but before we even do
that, we need to upload the file.
So, let's open up our store form. And we
will change the encoding type of our form
to multipart/form-data. What this allows
us to do is, any time you're uploading
files to a server, you need to make sure
that the browser will send it as a
multipart. So we say, "enctype=
multipart/form-data" and earlier we did
that, we added it and nothing actually got
sent through and we had to delete it,
and that's because we had not set up
express to handle multipart form data just
yet. So now that it is changed, we need to
use a package called multer to actually
handle all of those fields that are being
passed to us. So let's go over to our
store controller here and we'll say,
"const multer = require multer".
Then we need some options as to what's to
happen with multer before we even make our
Middleware route. So we say, "const multer
options = " and that's going to be an
object. Now there's two things here that
we need. We need to say,
"Where will the file be stored when it's
uploaded?" And second,
"What types of files are allowed?" because
what's going to happen is,
multer is going to handle the upload
request and we need to tell it,
"This is where you put the photo and this
is only the types of files that you should
possibly require." So first we say,
"storage" and there's whole bunch of
different storage options with multer. You
can save it to disk or in our case we're
going to save it just right into memory
and the reason is because we don't
actually want to keep the original
uploaded file. We want to just read it
into memory and then we're going to resize
it and then save the resized version to
file. So, if somebody uploads a really big
file we're not going to be running out of
disk space. In some situations you might
want to save the original as well as the
resized version but for now we're just
going to read it right into memory.
So we want to say, "multer.memorystorage"
and that will give us the values that we
need. And then we say, "filefilter" and
"filefilter" is going to be a function
that gives us a request, a file and a next
value or a callback value as the doc says.
So we'll use next because we've
been using that as we go along.
Now, what you can do is you can use the
shorthand ES6 method syntax because
"filefilter" is just a function. You can
delete the function and the colon and just
do it like that. So we have "filefilter",
we get the request, we get the file and we
get next and from this what we
need to do is either say, "Yes,
this file is fine, continue it on." Or,
"No. This file type isn't allowed." So
we'll say, "const is photo" and we will
check that the file.mime type.
So, a file's mime type essentially will
tell you what type of photo it is.
What's going to be image/png, image/jpeg.
Every file in the history of computers has
it's own mime type to describe what type
it is because you can't rely on,
like the extension of the file to actually
be true because someone could easily take
like virus.exe and rename it to be
image.jpeg. But you can rely on the mime
type of the file that's coming in. So
we'll check that the mime type starts with
image/ or in that case we could check for
image/jpeg or PNG or GIF or we're
accepting any type of image that comes in
here. So we're just going to say,
"starts with" and then we just say, "if is
photo" then we'll just call next and we'll
say, "no" and "true." Now, we haven't
been really working with callback based
stuff because we've been using a sync or
wait or promises but you will often see
this sort of callback premise in node. If
you call next and you pass it something as
a first value, that means it's an error.
If you call next and you pass it null
in the second value, that means it worked
in the second value that you're passing it
is one that needs to get passed along.
So in our case we're just saying,
"Yeah, it's fine. It starts with image.
Continue on. Continue with the file
uploading." Otherwise we're going to say,
"else" we'll say, "next" and we will pass
it, an object with a message that says,
"That file type isn't allowed." And we
need to either use back text or escape
that there and then we'll say,
"false" because it wasn't allowed. So
that's the multer options we have there.
Again, we're going to read the photo into
storage and then we're going to also check
that this is allowed type of file to be
uploaded because we don't want people
uploading PDFs or MP4 or anything like
that. Good. Next, we need to make our
Middleware for actually working with our
create store. So, maybe just before create
store, it doesn't matter where you do this
but you say, "exports.upload = multer"
we'll pass at the multer options and then
we'll say, "We are looking for a single
field." So you can have multiple fields
that multer will handle but essentially
what we're going to say here, is just say,
"We just want a single field that's called
a photo." Now, we've done that, let's go
to our store form and modify our store
form to take a photo. So we go in to our
description, address, lat-long,
maybe before the address we'll do it. Say,
"image upload" say, "label for photo,
photo" then we'll have an input, the input
inside of it with a type of file,
a name of photo, ID of photo and we can
also tell it to some client side
validation as well where we say,
"accept = image/gif, image/png,
image/jpeg" with an E. Obviously somebody
could go ahead and remove that with dev
tools and that's why we did that server
side validation with multer.
But this would just be nice, if someone
uploads like a PDF for whatever reason,
they don't have to go and submit and find
out it didn't work. They'll know
immediately or they won't even be able to
select that value from there.
Then we'll say...still inside this, we'll
say, "if there is a store.photo," we'll
just give ourselves an image tag which
links out to where the image will be.
So, "/uploads, /store.photo" we'll give it
an alt of, I guess we could say,
"store.name" we just say the store name,
then we give it a width of 200.
All right. Now that we have our upload
Middleware all coded up and we also have
this photo showing up. You can click on,
"Choose file" and you go to your public
images, photos, you can see that I've
shipped this project with a bunch of very
fancy photos and a lot of them are fairly
large. We want to have them resized down
before we actually use them . So, let's
cancel that and go back to our store
controller here. We're going to build a
second piece of Middleware because the
first one upload reads it into memory.
So what that means is that it actually
doesn't save the file to disk but it just
stores it in the memory of your server and
that's just temporary because right away
we're going to resize it and then save it
to our actual folder. So, let's go up to
top here. We're going to import a package
called GIMP which will allow
us to resize our photos. So let's say,
"constgimp = require gimp" and then we
also need something that's going to allow
us to make the file names unique because
if somebody uploads dog.jpeg and then
somebody else comes along and uploads
dog.jpeg a week later, they shouldn't
overwrite it each other and I don't feel
like writing the logic to say "dog 2,
dog 3, dog 4." So, we will use a package
called UUID which is a unique identifier
package. So we'll say, "constUUID =
require UUID" and that will just give us
a unique identifiers for everything single
images...image that gets uploaded.
Good. So we'll go down. Right below our
upload we will now make our resize
function, "export.resize = " and it's
going to be in a sync function that has a
request and a response and a next. The
reason why we pass next there is
because...this is a Middleware, we're not
going to be doing any rendering or sending
back to the client. We're just going to be
saving the image, recording what the file
name is and then passing it along to
create store. So it's going to go,
"upload, resize, create store" Good.
So, first thing we need to do is,
not every single time that we edit our
store are we uploading a new file and if
that is the case, multer is not going to
pass us anything. So we just need to
check if there is no new file to resize,
if there is no request.file and it's
request.file because multer will put the
actual file onto the file property of the
request. That's the whole point of
Middleware, is somebody that came before
you, makes and preps some data right for
you. So if there is no request,
we are simply going to call next which
will skip to the next Middleware.
Remember how we have upload, upload will
finish and call next for us.
Then we have resize, we're going to resize
the photo and call next and then we're
going to create the store. But if there is
no file to upload, we're just going to
call next immediately which is going to
skip down to create store or it's going to
help us to update the store. Good. So we
have next and then we're going to return,
obviously that'll stop this function
from running any further.
Let's just console.log the actual
request.file and just see what we're
working with. So give that a save,
open up your terminal here and...Oh,
no. I did something wrong. Sync equals...
Yeah, I don't know how to code Javascript.
There we go.
Now, before we go any further let's just
actually get some data showing.
I don't like to write too much code
without actually seeing that it's working
along the way. So let's console log
request.file and we will first hook up
both of these Middlewares and then we'll
look at our console to see if the
console.log is actually working. So, go
back to your index.js and this page here,
add store is, when we submit it, it's
post/add. Now our only function,
our only controller function here is just
create store. But like I said,
we need to first run multer, which is
upload and then we need to run resize and
then we need to run create store. So let's
take a look here. What I like to do is put
these on their own line just because it
starts to get a little bit hairy.
So we have, "storecontroller.upload,
storecontroller.resize" and then
"storecontroller.createstore" and we'll
have to wrap resize because it's in a sync
function. Wrap that sucker in a catch
error. Now, see how this is getting kind
of hairy? We'll put these on their own
line so we can easily read it.
So first is upload, then it's resize,
then it's create store
and then this route is really,
really easy to read because you say,
"word/add, upload, resize,
create store" Good. Give that a save.
Go back to your store here, refresh
the add page. Open up your terminal.
Clear that out, and we're going to try to
add a store ourselves. So I'm going to
say, "Mulberry Coffee" it's coffee.
Going to try and add one of the photos
that we have here. That one looks good.
And I'm going to add in Hamilton, just
some lat and long and then give it some
values. Click on save. Woah! You see what
happened there? We just console
logged...go back to your controller. We
just console logged request.file and what
do we have here? Request.file is, field
name was photo because that's the field
name that came from our form. The original
name was 1.jpeg, that's what I uploaded
right here. The encoding type, the mime
type, we talked about that earlier and
then this is what's really important here,
the buffer. What is the buffer?
Well, I told you earlier that we're not
actually saving this file to any hard
drive. We're actually just reading in to
memory and buffer is just a representation
of that file in memory. And then we didn't
do anything after I console logged.
So, here if I bring this down. You see
how it's just spinning forever,
that's because we haven't actually done
anything with the response and this will
eventually tell us that there's been a
timeout on our server because we haven't
responded to it in anyway. So that's good.
We have this reuqest.file and what we need
to pull from that file here is we need
the extension which is JPEG.
Again, don't rely on the user's uploaded
extension because they might goof it up.
We want to rely on the mime type that the
server has inferred for us.
So we will say, "const file type" or maybe
const extension = request.file.mimetype.
split on the forward slash, right? Because
we have this, and if you have that image,
/JPEG and you split it on the forward
slash. Getting array of two pieces
and then we want the second piece which is
going to be the extension.
So we will say split and we want the
second piece which is one.
Good. Then we want to set it up so that
create store is going to have the info for
when it actually stores. So, we say,
"request.photo" right? We're just going to
pass it along to the next one that can
pull that off of the request. Or no
"request.body.photo" because remember we
save a store with request.body and if we
put the photo on the body then it's going
to get stored into our database.
And that is going to be equal to some back
text. We need a unique identifier for that
so we'll say, "UUID.v4" and that will
generate a unique string which will make
sure that we don't have file names
that are overlapping each other.
Then we want a dot and you put the
extension on there. So that's going to be
like "h99..." whatever, ".JPEG" and that's
going to be the name of our actual photo.
Now, we actually have to do the resizing.
Now we resize. So we say, "constphoto =
O8 GIMP.read" now GIMP.read you have to
either pass it a file path that's on your
server or you pass it a buffer which is,
again, our photo is currently in memory
just for a few seconds before we actually
read it and resize it. So you,
"request.file.buffer"
remember? Let's go back here,
"request.file.buffer." These FFD8OO,
that means delicious salami, some fish,
jam, on a wooden board.
That's what that means in the buffer.
Good. So we have it and because GIMP is a
package that is based on promises, we can
just await the actual result and put it in
to photo. Good. Now we can await
photo.resize, we want to resize it to 800
pixels by...and we want to say like auto.
So width is a hundred and the height is
going to be auto. So the way that you can
reference auto is, you say,
"GIMP.auto" and this is all in the GIMP
documentation if you need to pull that up.
So we resized it and now we write it
to our actual folder. So let's say await,
photo.write. Again, because all the stuff
is asynchronous, we need to wait until
they're done before we go ahead. Write
and it's going to be in public/uploads/
then we're going to say the photo name.
Just request.body.photo. Woo!
Then, finally when we're done, once we
have written the photo to our file system,
keep going, right? Because the whole point
of this resize function is to resize it,
to save it to disk and then just to save
reference to what the photo is called so
that the next step, create store, will
just store at that path to the photo
that's on our actual hard drive. So let's
say next. Good. So that will skip it,
that's the next Middleware that we have
here. You noticed how I saved it now,
this page broke because it was finally up
and running. Just give it a refresh.
Now let's try and add something. So,
we say, "Wes..." Actually, let me open
up my uploads folder just so we
can see it come in hot. So, uploads,
I'm going to sort by date modified, just
so that when I actually do upload
some file, it will be popped right
up in there. Okay, so we have Wes.
Our description is going to be, "Great
coffee." We're going to try and upload a
photo for our first one. Let's pick this
one of oysters. Maybe we'll call it,
"Oyster Shack." Then our oyster, maybe
Oyster Bay, United States,
we got our lat and our long, we get some
tags. Now we're going to click save
and...oh no! We broke it. "Cannot read
property split of undefined." That
happened in store controller on line 35.
We're going to store controller.
Line 35. Request.file.mim type, you're
probably screaming at me for the last 10
minutes. Mime type. There we go, let's try
it again. I can just refresh that page and
it should repost all that data that we
had. So, continue. "You must supply an
address." No, it didn't work. So we'll try
once more. Oyster Shack,
great. Upload the photo of the oyster.
That's it. Oyster Bay. Give it some tags.
Give it a save. There we go. Successfully
created Oyster Shack.
Now if I go back to my Finder here, today
at 3:32 p.m. that's what time it is right
now. I open that sucker up, 800 pixels by
auto. So it's been refreshed.
Now if I go back to my homepage here, you
see Oyster Shack but we still have this
photo here that it actually isn't working.
So let's maybe take a look
at our edit screen here.
Let's go back to our store form. We'll
just do a quick dump of what we have,
"pre = h.dump store." We'll see what data
we're working with. So Oyster Shack has,
ID, slug, name, description, location,
tags, it's got...oh, you tell me why
didn't it actually work. It saved the
photo but why didn't it save it to the
database? Because our schema
is not set up to actually handle that,
right? We have name, slug, description,
tags created, location,
we don't have image yet or photo. So we
just say, "photo is going to be equal to a
string." Now let's try upload a photo
once more. Again, we can't update it just
yet because we haven't set the Middleware
for updating one just yet.
So we have to add a new one.
We'll call this one, let's see,
one of these fun photos. Doughnut Monster.
Yum! We upload a photo,
we say, "Doughnuts" with a difference.
Cool. Family friendly. Then we save it.
Bam! "Created Doughnut Monster." Can we go
here, we see a doughnut?
Sure do. Now if we go to homepage, you see
that the doughnut photo is actually being
pulled in. Why? Because we added it to our
schema before we were passing it a photo
property, but we didn't have it in our
schema. So our schema's like,
"Ugh, I don't know what this photo is. I'm
not going to do anything with it because
we have a strict schema." So that is
uploading a photo. The last thing we want
to do is be able to edit some of these
existing ones. So go back to our routes
here and we'll do the same thing for our
update route which is add/ID.
Put that on it's own line and we'll simply
just take this upload and resize and put
them alongside "catch errors, update
store." So let's see here.
Now we'll go to Brew Bar. We will try to
edit one of these. Let's find something
good. Yeah that looks good. Burgers
and brews. Upload the file,
give it a save. We've successfully updated
it. Did it make it into our folder?
There it is. We go to our homepage, you
see Brew Bar now has a picture of those
burgers being pushed in. Great. So I
really hope that solidifies the idea of
Middleware is, rather than...I often see
people just like dump all their logic into
one controller method, when the reality is
that, uploading and resizing could really
be done on any route. And if you need to
upload something, if you need to resize
something, no problem. You just pop a
Middleware in there and then your final
route is one that that is actually going
to take care of storing it
in the database.
♪ [music] ♪